pmb
~~~

pmb is a tool to setup the runtime environment for Perl applications,
built on top of Perl runtime infrastructure such as perlbrew and
cpanm.

* Design goals or requirements

Perl versions.  It must support Perl 5.8 or later.  It should be
possible to choose the "latest" version of Perl rather than some
specific version of Perl.

Platforms.  It should support various development environments on
Unix-like platforms.  In particular, it should support CentOS, Debian
GNU/Linux, Mac OS X, and Cygwin with common development tools
installed (including, but not limited to, bash, sed, make, gcc, tar,
wget, and git).  It should not depend on version or available modules
of system perl.  It must not depend on existence of non-standard tools
(including, but not limited to, perlbrew, cpanm, or carton).  Note
that it may use non-standard tools by installing them by itself, if
required.

Locality.  It must not add, modify, or delete any file outside of the
directory for the application, or the directories specified by the
application.  It should not request the permission for files not
accessible by the owner of the application (or the "current" user).

Git submodules.  It must support Git submodules.  That is, it must be
possible to merge the list of required Perl modules from submodules
with ones of the application proper.

Declarative list of required modules.  It must be possible to list the
Perl modules required by the application (or submodule) in declarative
manner.  That is, it must be possible to extract the list of required
modules without executing application-specific scripts.  It may also
support non-declarative formats to describe dependency.

CPAN modules.  It must be able to install Perl modules from CPAN by
their module names.  It must be able to resolve dependency of such
Perl modules for the installation, without inferring the distribution.

Git repositories.  It must be able to clone additional Git
repositories required by application but not added as submodules.

Packaging.  It must be possible to create the collection of packages
of required Perl modules for later use in installation or deployment
processes (so-called "bundle" feature).  It must be possible to
incrementally update the collection when new modules are added to the
list of required modules (without completely regenerating the
collection).  It should be possible to create the collection of
required pure-Perl modules that can be used without module-specific
installation process.  It must be possible to place these collections
outside of the application repository.  These collections should not
depend on Perl version, or existence of non-core Perl modules.  It
must be possible to install the required Perl modules using these
collections without accessing CPAN sites.

Automation.  It must be possible to build the runtime environment
without user interaction.

At the time of initial development of pmb, no single tool conforms to
these requirements, which is why pmb has been developed.
